Release/1.9.0 (#213)
fivetran/dbt_quickbooks: CHANGELOG.md

# dbt_quickbooks v1.9.0
[PR #213](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/pull/213) includes the following updates:

## Schema/Data Change

> **12 total changes • 3 possible breaking changes**

Reviewer: In the sections below we use interchangeably "potential" and "possible" for breaking change callouts. Can you update either way to have consistent verbiage.

Author: Standardized.

| Data Model(s) | Change type | Old | New | Notes |
| ------------- | ----------- | --- | --- | ----- |
| All tax line models | Variable configuration (opt-in) | Individual tax line variables sufficient | `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true` also required | **Potential breaking change for dbt Core users** If you previously enabled any individual tax line variables, those models will now be disabled by default. See the [Enabling Tax Lines](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) section of the README for configuration details.  |
| `quickbooks__general_ledger` | Potential new rows | No tax lines | Tax lines now available (opt-in) | Tax line rows are disabled by default. Set `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true` and enable individual tax line variables to post tax lines to the tax liability account. Tax lines are added only when you opt in. See the [Enabling Tax Lines](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) section of the README for details. |

> | `int_quickbooks__purchase_double_entry` | Data change | `paid_to_account_id` = purchase line expense account; `class_id` = expense class from purchase line | `paid_to_account_id` = tax liability account; `class_id` = `null` | **Potential breaking change** for users with `using_purchase_tax_line: true`. Tax lines now correctly post to the tax liability account. `class_id` is no longer populated for tax line rows. |

Reviewer: This is only relevant if the individual tax line table is enabled and `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true`. Let's add the clarification.

Author: Thanks for calling that out, updated.

# dbt_quickbooks v1.9.0
[PR #213](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/pull/213) includes the following updates:

## Schema/Data Change
**10 total changes • 1 possible breaking change**

| Data Model(s) | Change type | Old | New | Notes |
| ------------- | ----------- | --- | --- | ----- |

> | All tax line models | Variable configuration | Individual tax line variables sufficient | `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true` also required | **Potential breaking change for dbt Core users** If you previously enabled any individual tax line variables, those models will now be disabled by default. See the [Enabling Tax Lines](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) section of the README for configuration details.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| All tax line models | Variable configuration (opt-in) | Individual tax line variables sufficient | `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true` also required | **Potential breaking change for dbt Core users** If you previously enabled any individual tax line variables, those models will now be disabled by default. See the [Enabling Tax Lines](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) section of the README for configuration details.  |
```

> | `quickbooks__general_ledger` | Potential new rows | No tax lines | Tax lines now available (opt-in) | Tax line rows are disabled by default. Set `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true` and enable individual tax line variables to post tax lines to the tax liability account. Row counts increase only when you opt in. See the [Enabling Tax Lines](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) section of the README for details. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `quickbooks__general_ledger` | Potential new rows | No tax lines | Tax lines now available (opt-in) | Tax line rows are disabled by default. Set `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true` and enable individual tax line variables to post tax lines to the tax liability account. Tax lines are added only when you opt in. See the [Enabling Tax Lines](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) section of the README for details. |
```

| `stg_quickbooks__bill_tax_line`<br>`stg_quickbooks__bill_tax_line_tmp` | New models | — | — | Surfaces tax line detail records for bills. Enabled via `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true` and `using_bill_tax_line: true`. [See the README](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) for details. |
| `stg_quickbooks__credit_memo_tax_line`<br>`stg_quickbooks__credit_memo_tax_line_tmp` | New models | — | — | Surfaces tax line detail records for credit memos. Enabled via `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true` and `using_credit_memo_tax_line: true`. [See the README](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) for details. |
| `stg_quickbooks__deposit_tax_line`<br>`stg_quickbooks__deposit_tax_line_tmp` | New models | — | — | Surfaces tax line detail records for deposits. Enabled via `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true` and `using_deposit_tax_line: true`. [See the README](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) for details. |

> | `stg_quickbooks__estimate_tax_line`<br>`stg_quickbooks__estimate_tax_line_tmp` | New models | — | — | Surfaces tax line detail records for estimates. Enabled via `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true` and `using_estimate_tax_line: true`. [See the README](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) for details. |

Reviewer: Small change suggestions to shorten the notes to include only what's necessary and highlight the opt-in nature for the new models.
```suggestion
| `stg_quickbooks__bill_tax_line`<br>`stg_quickbooks__bill_tax_line_tmp` | New models (opt-in) | — | — | Enabled via `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true` and `using_bill_tax_line: true`. [See the README](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) for details. |
| `stg_quickbooks__credit_memo_tax_line`<br>`stg_quickbooks__credit_memo_tax_line_tmp` | New models (opt-in) | — | — | Enabled via `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true` and `using_credit_memo_tax_line: true`. [See the README](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) for details. |
| `stg_quickbooks__deposit_tax_line`<br>`stg_quickbooks__deposit_tax_line_tmp` | New models (opt-in) | — | — | Enabled via `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true` and `using_deposit_tax_line: true`. [See the README](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) for details. |
| `stg_quickbooks__estimate_tax_line`<br>`stg_quickbooks__estimate_tax_line_tmp` | New models (opt-in) | — | — | Enabled via `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true` and `using_estimate_tax_line: true`. [See the README](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) for details. |
```

 
## Feature Update

> - Introduces the Enable Tax Lines variable in Quickstart as a master toggle to introduce tax lines to all customers. It defaults to `false` to prevent unintended model compilation if the required source tables are not configured. Set it to `true` and then sync the individual tax line tables for the tax transaction types you need. In dbt Core, see the [Enabling Tax Lines](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) section of the README for full setup instructions.

Reviewer: This is essentially a duplicate of what's already mentioned in the first row of the schema/data change table. If additional detail isn't added here let's remove it.

Author: removed

> # dbt_quickbooks v1.9.0

Reviewer: The DECISIONLOG has a section for "Bringing in The Right Tax Accounts For Tax Lines". While still mostly true, it needs to be updated with the changes included in this PR.

Author: Tweaked the decisionlog.

[PR #213](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/pull/213) includes the following updates:

## Schema/Data Change

> **9 total changes • 0 possible breaking change**

Reviewer: If any customers outside of Quickstart had these tax line variables enabled in the past, this update will now disable them unexpectedly. We will want to list that as a possible breaking change.

Author: New row created for this and called this out.

| Data Model(s) | Change type | Old | New | Notes |
| ------------- | ----------- | --- | --- | ----- |

> | `quickbooks__general_ledger` | Potential new rows | No tax lines | Tax lines now available | If tax lines are enabled, new tax line rows post to the tax liability account. Row counts increase when you enable any of these variables. |

Reviewer: This needs to be updated to highlight this is a configurable feature which is disabled by default. If users want to take advantage of this they will need to have the right variables enabled. This is a good place to bring attention to the new configurable varibale.

Author: Updated.

> | `stg_quickbooks__bill_tax_line`<br>`stg_quickbooks__bill_tax_line_tmp` | New models | — | — | Surfaces tax line detail records for bills. Enabled via `using_bill_tax_line`, see the README for details. |

Reviewer: These new models will need to include the new variable that's also used to control their enablement in addition to the individual table variable.

Author: Added to the notes section for each of these lines.

| `stg_quickbooks__credit_memo_tax_line`<br>`stg_quickbooks__credit_memo_tax_line_tmp` | New models | — | — | Surfaces tax line detail records for credit memos. Enabled via `using_credit_memo_tax_line`, see the README for details. |
| `stg_quickbooks__deposit_tax_line`<br>`stg_quickbooks__deposit_tax_line_tmp` | New models | — | — | Surfaces tax line detail records for deposits. Enabled via `using_deposit_tax_line`, see the README for details.  |
| `stg_quickbooks__estimate_tax_line`<br>`stg_quickbooks__estimate_tax_line_tmp` | New models | — | — | Surfaces tax line detail records for estimates. Enabled via `using_estimate_tax_line`, see the README for details.  |

## Feature Updates
- Introduces the Enable Tax Lines variable as a master toggle in the Quickstart variable configuration section for all tax lines. Set it to `true` before enabling any individual tax line variables. Defaults to `false` to prevent unintended tax line model compilation if you haven't configured the required source tables.

> - Individual tax line tables are now enabled in Quickstart when `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled` is set to `true` and the tables are selected in the Fivetran UI. In dbt Core, see the [Enabling Tax Lines](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) section of 

Reviewer: This CHANGELOG entry is incomplete. I also would recommend consolidating this with the above entry to just be one. Callout the new variable, it's default, how/why to use it, and link out to README for more details.

Author: Consoildated and added the pertinent details.

## Under the Hood

> - Updated seed data for more complete validation testing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| `quickbooks__general_ledger` | Potential new rows | No tax lines | Tax lines now available (opt-in) | Tax line rows are disabled by default. Set `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true` and enable individual tax line variables to post tax lines to the tax liability account. Tax lines are added only when you opt in. See the [Enabling Tax Lines](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_quickbooks/tree/main#enabling-tax-lines) section of the README for details. |
| `int_quickbooks__purchase_double_entry` | Data change | `paid_to_account_id` = purchase line expense account; `class_id` = expense class from purchase line | `paid_to_account_id` = tax liability account; `class_id` = `null` | **Possible breaking change** for users with `using_purchase_tax_line: true` and `quickbooks__tax_lines_enabled: true`. Tax lines now correctly post to the tax liability account. `class_id` is no longer populated for tax line rows. |

> | `currency_id`, `exchange_rate`, `quantity`, `sales_item_quantity` in several header staging tables | Explicit type cast | Warehouse-native type | `string` / `float` | **Possible breaking change** for downstream consumers with type-sensitive logic built on staging models. |

Reviewer 2: `string` / `float` is a lil confusing -- are some fields strings and others floats?

Author: @fivetran-jamie Yep. Updated to make it clearer.
